(upbeat music)
All right, now we're gonna look
at styling our nav with styled components
and it's gonna teach you all about how to scope our styles.
So let's open up this nav.js here.
And first thing I wanna to do
is we are going to make a styled component.
So the way that you do that is you make your own component,
looks like this const.
And I always like to call it like NavStyles.
I always like to put the word styles at the end of it.
And that way, when you go ahead and use that component,
you know that that is a styled component.
That's just personal preference, you don't have to do that.
You say styled. and then you give it
the type of element that you want.
So styled.div, styled.a,
in our case, it's going to be a nav element.
And then inside of that,
we just go ahead and write all of the CSS,
which we wish for it to be applied to our nav.
So say, let's just say background red.
Now we need to import the styled nav here,
and you see it's imported.
And we import styles from styled components
so that just did my auto import there.
Now that's not gonna work just yet,
but now what we need to do is we need to take
that nav element that we created just this
and replace it with our new styled component.
So I'm just going to replace that.
And you'll notice that the closing one also
has updated itself.
That is using my plugin.
That's called, what is it called?
Rename, auto renamed tag.
Yeah, auto rename tag is the one that you need to do that.
Now we'll go back to our app.
You'll see it as red.
I could change that to green
and it does.
Hot reload it, which is really cool.
But if you don't see it hot reloading,
there was some issues temporarily with hot reloading.
If you do not see it, just go over
and give it a quick refresh.
So now the kind of coolest thing about that
is any styles that we put inside of this style right here
will not be applied to anywhere else on our website.
So we can do things like go ahead and just grab links a
and say, background red and it'll turn everything red.
Now, if I have a link somewhere else in my website,
maybe in, let's just do a link here.
You'll notice that that link does not have background red,
and I didn't have to add like a specific class
or anything to that link.
I just use a very simple selector.
So any link that is inside of this nav element
will be colored red, everything else on the page, won't be.
So that is the difference between our global styles,
which we did in our global styles that JS file
and our scope styles,
which we'll do of the course in.
Other thing to get about this is you'll see here
I'm just starting to go ahead and write styles
that is applied to the main element.
Now, if you wanna style something
that is within that element, you just give it a selector.
So my personal philosophy for this type of thing
is to make your major components, your nav, your footer,
your sidebar, your person,
make those main components style.
And then just use selectors to grab
the things inside of those.
And like, if I wanted to style this unordered list,
there's kind of two ways I could do that.
I could, we'll delete that, we don't need that.
We could grab the UL, we could say border when PX solid red,
and you'll see that there's a red border around that.
Or I could also do const ulstyles = styled.ul.
And I put the border 10 PX, solid yellow in there.
And then if I wanted to use those UL styles,
I would just go and replace this UL tag with our component.
And that would go ahead and then apply them too,
so two different ways to do it.
You would use that separate component
if that, the styled component needs to be reused
multiple times throughout your website.
So maybe you wanted this style to apply it
to the one in the nav,
but you also wanted to apply the same styles
as something in the footer and in the sidebar,
if that's the case,
you need to make a reusable style.
And in my case,
I often opt for just putting it as a child selector.
And then I say,
ah, I need to reuse this style over and over again.
So if that's the case,
then I'll take it out of a child selector
and move into this style, which is its own component.
So we'll go through that a couple more times in this course,
deciding which one makes sense.
So let's go ahead now and start to,
okay, I move that back to you.
Let's go ahead and start actually styling up
this navigation here.
So remove everything that we have in there.
First thing is margin bottom.
We wanna have three REM and this is just for future layout,
you'll see why.
Then we wanna grab that unordered list in there.
Say margin zero, padding zero,
padding is zero.
And again, I'm just using Emmett there
and expanding it on the abbreviation there.
I'm gonna display display grid,
grid template, columns.
If we look at the final version,
you'll see, we have this big logo in the middle.
We have two links to the left and two links to the right.
So in order to do that, we wanna say 1fr, 1fr.
Those are the two, auto.
So the logo we'll take up as much space as that needs to.
And then 1fr, 1fr for each of those.
So if we give that a save, you'll see
it doesn't look very good right now,
but you will see that the logo,
once we bring it in we'll show there.
Text-align, center,
list style, none.
That'll take those little dots off in front of the elements,
our grid gap, I like to put my grid stuff together.
So grid gap, let's do 2rem and that's going to be 20PX.
Cause if we look at our layout here,
or what's our global styles.
On the HTML, I put a font size of 10PX and that's our base.
And then anytime we use rems throughout the application,
it will be two times the base, which is 20PX.
That's kinda one way I like to go about it.
Align items, this is more CSS grid stuff.
Maybe let's bring the CSS grid stuff to the bottom.
Here we go.
Line items, center.
Margin top is going to be
well actually we'll add that on later
because we don't have our logo in just yet.
So let's see how that's looking.
Pretty, pretty, pretty good.
I like it.
Okay, so we've got that,
next up we want to just tilt each
of these list items a little bit.
So I'm going to select the list item.
Now you notice I'm not going to select
the li inside of here.
You can do that in styled components.
That's very much a SAS thing
where you can nest your components.
But what I found is if you unnecessarily nest,
then the selector is gonna be nav, ul, li.
That's three levels deep.
And when it comes to media queries or overwriting
that CSS somewhere else, it gets a little tough.
So I like to not go very deep if I don't have to.
And the beauty of the styled components
is I can just select li and that
will only select the li inside of our nav.
So we're going to put a transform on it,
and I'm going to say rotate.
It's going to be,
I got to start with -2 degrees on each of them.
And we also want to put an order of one on it,
and that's gonna help us out when we hit
our media queries later on.
So you see now each of these ones
are tilt, tilt, tilt, tilt, okay.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna overwrite
this rotate value on each of them.
So I can say li:nth child one, that'll grab the first one.
And if I wanna overwrite the rotate,
I could simply just duplicate this
and apply like a 1.2 degree rotation on that.
And that's that one you see right there is tilted
separately from the rest of them.
However, the kind of tricky thing about transform
is that if you also had like a translateY or a skew
or any of the other transform properties in there,
then simply adding a new transform on here
will overwrite it.
Like let's watch this, scale, 4.
You see how all of these are scaled,
but just because I had overwritten the rotate value,
the scale here is no longer kicking in.
So one way around that is you can use CSS variables
and just overwrite the variables instead
of redoing the property each time.
So we'll say rotate = -2 degrees.
And then here, we'll say var --rotate,
and then inside of our transform,
we actually get rid of that entirely
and simply just update the variable
by saying rotate = one degree.
And look at that, now the scale,
obviously we don't wanna scale it,
but the scale value is still being intact
while you simply are just updating the rotate.
That's a really nice little trick that I like to do in CSS.
So we have that, I could have also done
&:nth child, 1--rotate one degree,
actually let's do that.
Let's do that.
I don't need to make a new selector every single time.
This is fine.
So that's the first one.
We'll do it again for the second one.
It's -2.5 degrees.
Let's do it for the third one.
Actually the third one will be the logo.
So we're not rotating that at all.
So we'll do it for the fourth one, which is four,
we'll say it's 2.5 degrees,
and then we won't do it for the last one,
because it will just take the default rotate that we have.
Good, let's go ahead and select all of the anchor links
inside of the head as well.
Say font size, 3rem,
text decoration, none.
And then when somebody hovers it, it will say,
and hover,
the color is going to be the red color
that we declared earlier up.
So, boom, boom, boom.
That's looking pretty good.
You could also, again,
you could, in here, you could say,
and hover rotate three degrees,
see how they all kind of boop, boop, boop, boop.
Let's keep that.
I like that.
That's kind of fun to see it move.
One thing you can't do,
I always, I thought this would be cool
is you could say like calc the rotate value
that is currently set plus 0.5 degrees,
but you can't do that.
You can't reference a variable when you're setting it
to a variable, you can override a variable,
but you can't reference itself,
which kind of sucks much like JavaScript you can.
So, and we'll just have to settle
with putting it on three degrees.
That's good for now.
We'll come back at a certain point and media query it up,
but for now I'm pretty happy with that.
The last thing we need to do is to bring in the logo.
And I'm going to ask you just to go ahead
and pull that from the final files,
because let me show you what are the moves involved
in getting that logo to work.
So GitHub, wes nos.
So go to the finished files, gatsby, source
styles,
components,
and we'll find our logo here.
We'll go into our components here and make a logo.JS,
and let's just grab the raw.
And this is why I'm not gonna type it with you.
Cause it would take forever.
Let's start with the actual component itself.
You'll see, I have logo styles, which is up here.
It's just a styled div then inside of it,
we've got our ever since 1994,
we have our h1, it says slick slices.
And then I've wrapped each of the slicks
with a different class.
And we also have given this a class name here.
And the reason why we're doing that is because logo styles
are all scoped inside of here.
But if I wanna be able to control the size of the logo
from within the nav, in that case, we do need a class on it.
Then in our styles here, this is kind of cool.
Let's actually pop it into the nav first.
So we'll go to our nav.
We will go here.
And just where it says the word logo,
we'll put in our logo component.
And then we will try to auto import that.
Doesn't seem to work the first time.
How about the second time?
That seemed to work.
If you go to the top,
you'll see that we imported logo from logo
and you'll see it's popping in there,
which is pretty cool.
Now this, I thought this was really cool.
So this, the font size of the logo styles is using clamp,
meaning that it is at a minimum one pixel size
at a maximum eight pixel size.
And then in between a 0.65 VW
meaning that as you resize your browser,
you'll see the logo will scale along with the browser size,
which is really cool.
Clamp is pretty nifty and then everything else
is using M's and M's are based upon the font size
of the element that was done.
And it's cool because what can be done with this
is if you were to change any of these,
if we just say like font size, 20 PX,
the whole logo scales up accordingly.
And I don't have to, even though the width
and the height and the background size
and what else, font size, letter spacing,
all of this stuff has done in M's,
it's all based on this one value.
And we could have also used CSS calc for that,
but I thought that was a pretty good use case
for just using M's in there.
And when, if I ever want to scale up or down the logo,
I can do that.
Okay, let's go back to our nav here.
We wanna move it down,
then let's go ahead and grab that logo.
So go into your back to your nav styles.
Let's just select the logo in here.
Maybe actually let's do that at the top.
Let's say transform, translateY -25%.
What that does is it moves it and gives it a base
at the bottom without adjusting any margin or padding.
And then we'll take this.
Then when we do the rest of our layout,
we will bump this down a little bit.
So it's not hiding underneath, but that's enough for now.
I know these styled ones are going to be a bit longer.
So if you rather just go ahead and copy paste the styles,
all of them from GitHub by all means,
go ahead and do that whenever we get into the CSS parts.
But I know a lot of you wanna know about little tricks,
like translateY and using CSS variables
instead of overriding properties.
So I'm gonna include that in this course.
I'll catch you in the next one.